[music]
Open AAI has committed $1.4 trillion of
AI data center spending over the next 8
years. Open AAI claims to have just $20
billion of annualized revenue and they
lose billions of dollars per month. Open
AAI obviously will not generate the
money to pay for this on its own. They
are reliant on raising money from
outside investors. In September of 2025,
OpenAI announced its biggest capital
raise yet. Nvidia agreed to invest $100
billion into OpenAI to help fund the
construction of new data centers. It's
now been more than 4 months since the
deal was announced, and Nvidia has not
yet wired a single penny to OpenAI. It
appears like this much hyped up
investment is probably never going to
happen. In this video, we will take a
deep dive into the Nvidia OpenAI
partnership and why some recent
developments look very bad for Sam
Alman.
Sam Alman is under a lot of pressure to
somehow come up with $1.4 trillion.
Fortunately, most of us are not in a
similar situation, but it is nonetheless
important to keep on top of your
finances and day-to-day spending. How
much do you spend eating out, riding
Ubers, or all those subscription
services you forgot about? If you asked
me in the past, I would have no idea,
but now I know exactly how much I'm
spending and saving. Thanks to today's
sponsor, Monarch Money. Monarch Money is
an all-in-one financial dashboard where
you can connect over 13,000 institutions
and track your full financial life in
one place. Before I started using
Monarch Money, I would have to look at
all my different credit card, bank, and
investment accounts individually, which
was almost impossible to keep track of.
So, I really had no idea how much I was
actually spending. It's a game changer
to have all your financial information
in one beautiful consolidated dashboard.
For example, I recently realized that
I've been paying $11 per month for HBO
Max when I haven't watched it in months.
Monarch Money is so much more than just
a budgeting tool. You can track all of
your accounts, transactions, and
investments. You can even add assets
like your car or home where you can see
your debt payoff progress. And it does
it all without ads, without credit card
offers, or any hidden fees or anything
like that. It works seamlessly with a
beautiful, intuitive experience on both
desktop and mobile. Monarch has earned a
4.9 star rating from thousands of users
who found peace of mind seeing the full
picture of their finances. If you want
to regain control of your financial
life, make sure to sign up for Monarch
Money by clicking the link in the
description below.
On September 22nd, 2025, OpenAI and
Nvidia jointly announced a so-called
strategic partnership to deploy 10
gawatts of Nvidia systems. To support
the partnership, Nvidia intends to
invest up to $100 billion in OpenAI
progressively as each gigawatt is
deployed. The first gigawatt will be
deployed in the second half of 2026.
When the deal was announced, OpenAI CEO
Sam Alman and Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang
gave a joint interview to CNBC.
Jensen, Nvidia is making a hundred
billion dollar investment in Open AI and
working together to build out I think
you're saying 10 gigawatts of capacity
uh over several years. The investment is
going to come with the gigawatts one at
a time. You're telling me you guys as
quickly as you guys can get it done.
Jensen, first of all, set the stage why.
This is the biggest AI infrastructure
project in history. This is the largest
computing project in history. Well, the
reason for that is because computing
demand is going through the roof for
open AI. You know, Chad GPT is a the the
single most revolutionary AI project in
history. It's um being used everywhere,
every industry, every country. Um every
person practically that I know uses chat
GPT. The computing demand is going
through the roof. And so this
partnership is about building an AI
infrastructure that enables AI to go
from the labs into the world. This is
about the AI industrial revolution
arriving. It's a very big deal.
>> There's a lot to unpack here. Because of
the massive demand for Chad GBT, OpenAI
is supposedly compute constrained. So
Nvidia will invest $100 billion to
deploy the 10 gawatt of AI data centers.
In the interview, Jensen Hong talked
about the $100 billion investment as if
it were a sure thing. First off, we need
to understand just how big 10 gawatts
is. As of the end of 2025, OpenAI claims
to have 2 gawatts worth of computing
capacity online. OpenAI does not own or
operate any of its own data centers.
Today, most of OpenAI's compute comes
from Microsoft. Some of it also comes
from Oracle, Coreeave, and other cloud
computing providers. In early 2025,
OpenAI announced Project Stargate to
much fanfare. Project Stargate is a
joint venture between OpenAI, Oracle,
and SoftBank. Stargate was supposedly
going to spend $500 billion to build 10
gawatt worth of AI data centers. As it
turned out, funding was not secured.
Oracle and SoftBank do not have $500
billion. As of the end of 2025, Stargate
had spent approximately $10 billion and
completed a 200 megawatt data center in
Abalene, Texas. This data center is
operated by Oracle and the compute is
leased to open AAI. This is just 2% of
their claimed target of 10 GW.
It's important that we understand the
timeline. As of the end of 2025, project
Stargate was only 2% completed and they
do not have nearly enough funding to
finish it. Instead of focusing on
finishing Stargate, OpenAI announced a
new 10 gawatt partnership with Nvidia.
This is separate from Stargate. So now
OpenAI has two massive data center
development projects, neither of which
have funding secured. The 10 gawatt
partnership with Nvidia has a lot of
unanswered questions. Who's going to
build and operate these data centers?
NVIDIA makes GPUs. OpenAI makes
software. Neither of them have any
experience building or operating large
data centers. When OpenAI and NVIDIA
announced their partnership in
September, they claimed that Nvidia
would invest up to $100 billion into
OpenAI. OpenAI CFO Sarah Frier has
previously stated that a 1 gawatt AI
data center cost $50 billion to build.
The 10 gawatts OpenAI announced in
September of 2025 would cost $500
billion. Nvidia's $100 billion
investment would only fund 20% of the
total cost. OpenAI never explained where
the other $400 billion will come from.
While Sam Alman gave almost no details
about how these supposed data centers
would actually be built, he made sure to
emphasize how important it is for OpenAI
to gain access to this computing power.
The compute constraints that the whole
industry has been in our company in
particular have been terrible. Um we're
so limited right now and the services we
can offer. There's so much more demand
than what we can do. And as we look
forward another year or two years, if
you have, you know, let's say it takes
10 gawatts of compute or 5 gawatts of
compute, you could choose one of two
things. You could choose to cure cancer
by doing a bunch of having AI do a bunch
of research or you could choose to offer
free education to everybody on Earth. No
one wants to make that choice. And so
increasingly as we see this, the answer
is just much more capacity so that we
can serve the massive needs and
opportunity with this.
>> According to Altman, with 5 gawatt of
compute, open AI can cure cancer. With
the other 5 gawatts, they will provide
education to every kid on Earth. This is
not the first time Sam Alman has talked
about curing cancer. This is a recurring
narrative he brings up as often as he
can. In March of 2025, Alman posted the
following tweet. This one tweet does a
pretty good job of summing up Alman's
arrogance and grandiose narcissism.
Quote, "Be me. Grind for a decade trying
to help make super intelligence secure
cancer or whatever. Mostly no one cares
for the first 7 and 1/2 years. Then for
two and a half years, everyone hates you
for everything. Wake up one day to
hundreds of messages. Look, I made you
into a twinkly style. Haha." unquote.
So, why does everybody hate Sam, the
benevolent Sam Alman who's grinding hard
to cure cancer? Well, we can find a few
reasons why people hate him just by
looking at this one tweet. He talks
about Gibli. What is Gibli? Studio Gibli
is an anime studio in Japan which makes
animated television shows. Studio Gibli
has over four decades of operating
history. They created a very distinctive
animation style which is instantly
recognizable to anime fans all around
the world. In early 2025, Sam Alman
realized that if ChatGBT could create
fake AI images in the style of Studio
Gibli, this could generate a lot of
interest from users. OpenAI scraped a
bunch of Giblly anime images from the
internet to train its image generator.
To market this new feature, Sam Alman
used an AI generated Giblly image of
himself for his Twitter profile picture.
OpenAI does not have any licensing
agreement with Studio Gibli, at least
none, which is publicly disclosed.
OpenAI does not pay any money to Studio
Gibli to license its animation style.
OpenAI scrapes data from thousands of
websites to get training data for Jad
GBT. In the vast majority of cases,
OpenAI does not have any licensing deal
or give any compensation. But there is
one notable exception. In early 2024,
OpenAI signed a deal with Reddit whereby
OpenAI pays Reddit to access its
userenerated data. On the day the deal
was announced, Reddit's stock price
increased 13%. It just so happens that
Sam Alman owns a venture capital firm
called Hydroine, which is a major
shareholder in Reddit, thus allowing
Alman to personally profit when Reddit's
stock price increases. OpenAI does not
have any licensing deal with any other
social media company besides Reddit. I'm
sure that's just a coincidence.
Studio Gibli has not publicly commented
on OpenAI ripping off their animation
style, but there is reason to believe
that they're not happy. Haya Miyazaki is
a co-founder of Studio Gibli. He is one
of the people who created the Gibli
animation style. In 2016, he gave an
interview where he was asked about AI
video generation. This was before
ChatGpt or Sora, but even at the time,
some earlier forms of AI video
generation already existed. Miyazaki was
asked what he thought about AI animation
and whether Studio Gibli would ever use
AI. He responded, quote, I am utterly
disgusted. If you really want to make
creepy stuff, you can go ahead and do
it. I would never wish to incorporate
this technology into my work at all. I
strongly feel that this is an insult to
life itself."
Maybe OpenAI plays fast and loose with
copyright laws and burns tens of
billions of dollars, but it's all worth
it because Sam Alman is going to cure
cancer. Or so he claims. Alman's
recurring narrative about curing cancer
is nothing more than an artifice to fool
the gullible. Open AAI will never cure
cancer. Open AAI claims that scientists
can use Chad GBT to help them in their
research. Today, the only
science-specific tool they have is
Prism. Prism is basically a text editor
that helps you format scientific papers.
This is most certainly not going to cure
cancer.
There are scientists who use ChatGpt.
Most of them use it to look stuff up.
Basically, as an alternative to Google
search, however, large language models
like Chat GPT are fundamentally limited
by their training data. They consume
huge amounts of training data and can
regurgitate outputs that look similar to
pre-existing materials they are trained
on. OpenAI likes to brag about how well
Chad GBT performs on various science
benchmarks. For example, when they
released Chad GBT 5.2, they claimed that
it scored 77.1% on a Science Olympiad
test, which is better than any other LLM
available today. While each question on
the Science Olympiad test is unique,
they all follow a pretty standard
format. Chad GBT was trained on
thousands of example problems is scraped
from stack exchange and other similar
websites. Most of this online material
is written by college students who are
studying for exams similar to the
science olympiad. Chad GBT is very good
at regurgitating output which looks
similar to what it was trained on.
However, this capability is largely
useless. If you're a researcher and
you're trying to develop new treatments
for cancer, having memorized a million
science olympiad questions is not going
to help you. Chad GBPT cannot tell you
how to cure cancer because a cure for
cancer does not exist in its training
data. Open AAI is really trying to
market the narrative that Chad GBT is a
great tool for scientists. On their
website, they have a section called
chats from scientists where they give
examples of prompts which they claim
were written by scientists and
healthcare professionals. The example
prompts include things like brainstorm
research questions, translate your
research into layman's language, tailor
a meal plan for your patient, and
convert data into a different schema.
Sure, this could be useful to a
scientist and it might save them some
time, but there's no evidence that Chad
GBT is capable of making novel
scientific breakthroughs.
Most people are not scientists and do
not understand how scientific research
works. This makes it very easy for
companies like OpenAI to create a public
narrative that portrays this technology
as far more capable than it actually is.
It's very important not to be fooled,
and you don't need to be a scientist to
apply critical thinking. For example, on
OpenAI's homepage, they have a featured
article about how GPT5 lowers the cost
of cell-free protein synthesis. OpenAI
had a partnership with a company called
GKO Bioworks. They created an AIdriven
autonomous lab and achieved a 40%
reduction in protein production costs.
That sounds pretty good, but what does
it actually mean in the real world? GKO
Bowworks is a synthetic biology company.
They are a contract research
organization which tries to develop
genetically modified yeast which can be
used to develop new drugs and other
things. GKO Bowworks is a complete
failure of a business. They went public
by merging with a spack in 2021 and
their share price has fallen by 97% due
to date. For years, GKO Bioworks has
claimed to be using AI to accelerate new
drug discovery. All the way back in
2023, GKO signed a deal with Google
Cloud to use Google's AI to develop new
drugs. GKO was not able to develop any
new drugs with AI. Since announcing the
AI partnership with Google, GKO's
revenue has dwindled to almost nothing
and the company incurs huge operating
losses. Companies like OpenAI and GKO
Bowworks are very good at producing
press releases and blog posts claiming
huge technological breakthroughs. But
until they actually create a new product
that is generating revenue, none of
their claims can be trusted.
Sam Alman claims that in the future
OpenAI will cure cancer. The only reason
they haven't done so already is because
they don't have enough computing
capacity. He says he needs 5 gawatt of
computing power to cure cancer. Today,
OpenAI already has 2 gawatt of computing
capacity. That's not enough to cure
cancer, but it should be enough for a
less ambitious project. Maybe they could
develop a new allergy medicine or cough
medicine or something. Yet, to date,
they have produced nothing. Pretty much
all of Alman's grandiose narratives fall
apart under even the slightest amount of
scrutiny. He claims that OpenAI is
computed. They have all these scientific
discoveries they could make if only they
had more data centers. If that were
really the case, why does OpenAI waste
billions of dollars on its ridiculous
Sora video generator? Sora consumes an
obscene amount of computing capacity
while generating minuscule revenue and
you cannot even pretend that this has
any scientific application.
In his public statements, Nvidia CEO
Jensen Huang always gives bullish
commentary about Open AI. Open AAI is
the largest indirect customer of Nvidia
GPUs and is propping up the entire AI
bubble from which Nvidia has so
handsomely profited. But in private,
Hongs opinions are very different. When
Nvidia and OpenAI announced a $100
billion investment back in September,
there was no binding agreement. It was a
non-binding letter of intent. According
to recent reporting from the Wall Street
Journal, Nvidia slowwalked the execution
of the deal and eventually got cold
feet. Hong has privately criticized
OpenAI's lack of discipline and
expressed concerns that Chad GBT is
losing market share to Google Gemini and
Anthropics Claude. The Wall Street
Journal article was published on January
31st.
The very next day on February 1st,
Jensen Huang gave a press conference in
Taiwan where he took questions from
reporters.
>> When asked about reports suggesting
Nvidia's 100 billion US investment in
Open AI is on the rocks, Hang had this
to say. That's nonsense.
>> Nonsense.
>> Yeah, that's complete nonsense. Um, we
we are going to uh make make a huge
investment in open AI.
>> Yeah, I believe I believe in Open AI.
The work that they do is is uh
incredible. They're one of the most
consequential companies of our time. We
haven't uh made the investment in them
because they're they're closing their
round, but we will definitely be
involved in their next in their in their
round. Hong immediately became
defensive, calling the Wall Street
Journal article nonsense, but he
basically confirmed the Wall Street
Journal's reporting. The $100 billion
investment they announced in September
is not going to happen. Instead, Nvidia
will make a huge investment in OpenAI's
upcoming capital raise. Sam Alman is
currently in the United Arab Emirates
trying to raise money from various
Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds.
OpenAI is reportedly attempting to raise
a total of $100 billion. Prospective
investors include Microsoft, Nvidia,
Middle Eastern sovereign wealth funds,
and possibly SoftBank. This is the
funding round Hong was referencing
earlier. So instead of investing $100
billion as they originally claimed,
Nvidia will invest a much smaller amount
of money as part of a larger funding
round. After the release of Chad GPT,
Sam Alman essentially bluffed his way to
the top. Open AAI raised huge amounts of
money and signed up for huge data center
spending commitments. This was all based
on Altman's claims of artificial general
intelligence that can cure cancer. None
of which is actually going to happen.
The likes of Nvidia and Microsoft need
to keep OpenAI alive so as to keep the
AI bubble going and support their own
stock market valuations. That's why
they're participating in OpenAI's
funding round. But I don't think Jensen
Huang actually believes that OpenAI will
cure cancer or any of Altman's other
grandiose claims. That's why he's
scaling back the size of the investment
from what was originally claimed.
All right, guys. That wraps it up for
this video. What do you think about
Nvidia and Open AAI? Let us know in the
comments section below. As always, thank
you so much for watching and we'll see
you in the next one. Wall Street
Millennial signing